In this lesson we will learn how to add an audio file to a web page in front of you is a simple example
page that we've used in previous lessons in the course and you can see that for this lesson we've added
a subheading of music and then a paragraph that reads I play a ukulele and have included a sample recording
on this page.
So our goal for this lesson is to include an audio file right below this text.
We'll play a clip of the ukulele on my desktop.
I have an audio file named ukulele.
MP3 so our goal is to write the necessary code to include that file in our web page.
Let's begin by adding a bit of code underneath this paragraph the code to include audio is very intuitive
.
It's simply audio next within this audio element.
You create another element named source and we'll give this element an attribute of SIRC for source
.
And then we have to include a string that tells the web browser where to point to locate the file.
So let's make sure that we have that audio file in the correct directory.
I'm going to move that ukulele MP3 file into the same folder as our HMO file.
Now within this directory I'll create a folder named audio.
Now let's move the ukulele MP3 file into the audio folder.
So our HMO code for source we'll say audio forward slash.
So this will look inside the audio folder and then we simply type the name of the file so it's Ukulele
.
MP3 we need to include another attribute for this source element and its name is type.
This is where we let the Web Browser know what type of file this is.
So our value is simply audio slash MPEG.
Finally let's add an attribute name of controls to this parent audio element to make sure that all browsers
add controls like pause and play in volume.
Now if we click save and then reload our web browser we can see that here is an audio player.
If I click the play button you can hear ukulele playing.
Now in some ways we've completed our goal we've added an audio clip to a webpage.
However this may work in the most recent version of Mozilla Firefox the web browser that I'm using.
But we need to make sure that this works across all browsers and devices.
So there's a few extra steps we need to take.
Most modern web browsers and devices can play MP3 files.
However certain browsers and devices require a dot ogg file dot O G G on my desktop I have an ukulele
dot Oh file.
Now this is the same exact audio clip as the MP3 file.
It's simply been saved in a different format so let's go ahead and move this file into the audio folder
to sit next to the ukulele MP3 file.
Now in our HTML will create another source element and for the SIRC attribute will say look inside the
audio folder and then pull in the ukulele dot org file and the type attribute for this will have a value
of audio Shlash.
Aw og.
This means that our audio element now has two source elements and web browsers will know to choose the
one that they support.
So if they support MP3 files it'll grab this one.
If the browser supports all good playback it will use this source.
So we have all of our bases covered for modern web browsers and devices but let's include a bit of extra
code to make sure that even old or outdated web browsers can still hear our audio file even though older
web browsers don't support the audio element.
They do support fallback content which means we can include content within the audio element and if
a web browser is too old to be able to load one of these files at all it will still display our fallback
content so we can begin typing that fallback content.
I'm going to create a link.
We remember that the code to create a link or an anchor is simply a.
Now the text that we want users to click on is to go Laili audio recording.
Now on this element we want to give it an attribute of href and this is where we point to the file audio
and we'll use the MP3 file because it's the most common format ukulele MP3.
So with this code in place newer web browsers will still see a player that they can click on.
However let's pretend that I was using an outdated web browser.
I would see simply this link as fallback content so it would look like this.
Users would still see a link that they can click on which plays the audio file.
This means that even though older web browsers may not be able to play the file natively on our Web
page if we simply create a hyperlink to the MP3 file then most browsers no matter how old they are should
be able to play or load the clip in one way or another.
So to review to include an audio file on a web page we use the audio element for newer browsers.
We can include different source elements that point towards our file and they will include a native
player directly on the page for all their web browsers we can include a fallback that simply links to
the file in our next lesson.
We will learn how to add a video file to a web page